surfing usually involves the use of a
God made wave but there are places where
a man-made wave can provide some great
surfing action and one of those places
is along the edges of the Houston Ship
Channel as it cuts through Galveston Bay
when finding a good place to surf God
made waves a surfer looks for a sharp
transition from deep to shallow water
and that same rule applies when surfing
man-made waves from tankers if you can
find a place close to the Houston Ship
Channel where it transitions from the
50-foot ship channel up to five foot
depth or less you will probably find
some pretty large waves another factor
to consider is the speed and whole
design of the ship and you can see a
visible wake coming from that ship
that's going to make a surfable wave
somewhere and you can see the wave
breaking on the front of that ship if
you can see that then you know you're
going to have a surfable wave when it
reaches shallow water some other things
to consider also are the tides a low
tide is better than a high tide and wind
a light wind 5 to 10 miles per hour or
less is ideal once you find a good spot
get your boards ready and it helps to
have a boat that has a fairly low side
on it so it's easy to jump off and get
ready for that wave and get about 50
yards in front of it so you can get
yourself ready and to give the boat time
to get out of the way and this wave
actually is not surfable it's a little
bit too small but you'll eventually
catch one that is surfable and you'll be
surprised how long you can serve
now one thing surprising about tanker
surfing is the wave that Kenny and
Ashley are riding here is made by that
ship that's way off in the distance now
and that's usually the case because it
takes a while for that wave to reach
shallow water well that's how you tanker
surf in Galveston Bay have fun and be
safe